IDQ21033
Australian Government Bureau of Meteorology

TOP PRIORITY FOR IMMEDIATE BROADCAST

Severe Thunderstorm Warning
for DAMAGING WINDS, LARGE HAILSTONES and HEAVY RAINFALL

For people in Channel Country and parts of Maranoa and Warrego, Darling Downs and Granite Belt, North West and Central West Forecast Districts.

Issued at 1:34 pm Tuesday, 19 December 2023.

Severe thunderstorms over southern Queensland.

Weather Situation: A trough laying through inland Queensland is generating severe thunderstorms in a hot and humid environment ahead of a strengthening upper trough.

Severe thunderstorms are likely to produce damaging winds, large hailstones and heavy rainfall that may lead to flash flooding over the next several hours in parts of the Darling Downs and Granite Belt district. Locations which may be affected include Stanthorpe.

Severe thunderstorms are likely to produce damaging winds over the next several hours in the Channel Country and parts of the Maranoa and Warrego, North West and Central West districts. Locations which may be affected include Thargomindah, Windorah, Bedourie, Bulloo Downs, Eromanga and Ballera.

Applethorpe reported 41mm in 60 minutes to 1:20pm

Emergency services advise people to:
    * Park your car undercover away from trees. 
    * Close doors and windows. 
    * Keep asthma medications close by. Storms and wind can trigger asthma attacks. 
    * Charge mobile phones and power banks in case the power goes out. 
    * Put your pets somewhere safe and make sure they can be identified in case they get lost. 
    * Do not drive now unless you have to because conditions are dangerous. 
    * Tell friends, family and neighbours in the area. 
    * Go inside a strong building now. Stay inside until the storm has passed. 
 

The next warning is due to be issued by 4:35 pm.

If severe thunderstorms develop in the Southeast Queensland area (east of Dalby from Rainbow Beach to Stanthorpe), a more detailed Severe Thunderstorm Warning will be issued to people in this area.

Warnings are also available through TV and Radio broadcasts, the Bureau's website at www.bom.gov.au or call 1300 659 210. The Bureau and emergency services would appreciate warnings being broadcast regularly.


Copyright Commonwealth of Australia 2011, Bureau of Meteorology (ABN 92 637 533
532).  Users of these web pages are deemed to have read and accepted the
conditions described in the Copyright, Disclaimer, and Privacy statements
(http://www.bom.gov.au/other/copyright.shtml).
